#### 1. What is Object Relationship?
- Object Relationships are Special Field Types which lets you connect Objects to each other.
- There are mainly 3 Object Relationship options in UI
	1. Master-Detail
	2. Lookup
	3. Hierarchical Relationship (Only available on User Object) : Lets you lookup to other Users on User Detail Page.
___
#### 2. How many Objects can be Related to each other?
- It depends on the type of Relationship field that you chose.
- The total number of relationships that an Object can have with other Objects are 40.
- The total number of Master-Detail that an Object can have with other Objects are 2.
- So, if you created 2 MDR's then you can only create 38 Lookup Relationships.
___
#### 3. Explain Master-Detail Relationship.
- The object on which you create the Master-Detail Relationship becomes Detail and the Object this field refers becomes the Master.
- 3 Rules of MDR :
	1. **Parent is Mandatory** : Every Details record must have a Master Record associated with it.
	2. **Cascade Delete** : When a user deletes the master record, all detail records are deleted. Hence, its often called as a Tightly coupled Relationship. And this deletion is known as Cascade Delete.
	3. **OWD is always Controlled by Parent** : The ownership and sharing of a Detail record are determined by the Master record.
- Master-Detail Relationship provides you the Rollup Summary Functionality.
- **NOTE** : 
	1. Master also known as Parent and Detail also known as Child.
	2. A Parent cannot become the Child of the same Object i.e. on the Parent Object if you create a MDR field you cannot select the Child Object here as a Parent.
	3. A Parent can be the Child of Some other object. Here also, MDR Rules will apply.
	4. Undeleting the Parent will also bring the Child Records back.
	5. If you only deleted the Child and Restoring it, it will be Related back to its Parent automatically.
	6. A Standard object can only become Parent it cannot be a Child i.e. you will never see the Data Type of MDR while creating a Field on a Standard Object.
___
#### 4. How to Reparent a Details Record OR Can you change the Parent Record of a Child Record OR What is Reparenting of a Child Record?
- By default a Child's Parent cannot be Changed. 
- **Process** : Object Manager &rarr; Select Details Object &rarr; Fields and Relationships &rarr; Go to the Master Detail Relationship Field &rarr; Edit &rarr; check Allow Reparenting.
____
#### 5. Who can Create, Edit or Delete a Child Record?
- While Creating/ Editing the MDR Relationship Field we need to Specify the Sharing Settings.
- We have 2 Settings from which we need to choose 1 and this will affect the OWD of the Child Object
	1. Read-Only : If a User has Read-Only Access on Parent Record then he can Create, Edit and Delete Child Records for that Parent.
	2. Read/Write : If a User has Read/Write Access on Parent Record then only he can Create, Edit and Delete Child Records for that Parent.
___
#### 6. Explain Lookup Relationship.
- In Lookup Relationship the ideology of Parent and Child is absent.
- It simply links one object to another Object.
- So, the rules of MDR are not here
	1. no need to compulsorily lookup other record.
	2. deleting the looked-up record does not delete the other record.
	3. If Object B has a Lookup with Object A then also Object A can have a Lookup Relationship with Object B unlike what we had in MDR i.e. a Parent cannot be the Child of its own Child Object.
**NOTE** : There are 2 behaviors unique to Lookup
1. Making the Lookup Record mandatory just like the MDR Mandatory Parent Characteristic.
2. What to do if the lookup record is deleted?
____
#### 7. How to make Parent Mandatory in Lookup Relationship?
- While creating/ editing a Field we get an Option called **Required**. This option makes it mandatory to have a value in the field before the Record can be saved.
- **Process** : Setup &rarr; Object Manager &rarr; Child Object &rarr; Fields and Relationships &rarr; Lookup Field &rarr; Edit &rarr; check Required
___
#### 8. What happens if the Parent of a Child Record in a Lookup Relationship is deleted?
- While creating a Lookup Relationship or by editing you get the Option
	- What to do if the lookup record is deleted?
		1. Clear the value of this Field (not applicable if field is marked required)
		2. Don't allow deletion of the lookup record that's part of a lookup relationship.
____
#### 9. Explain Junction-Object.
- A Junction Object is a Custom Object with two master-detail relationships.
- The 1st Master Object becomes the Primary and controls the ownership and sharing.
- Deleting Behavior of Junction Object:
	1. Deleting any of the 2 Parent's will delete the Child Record and undeleting the Parent will also undelete the Child.
	2. If you delete both the Parents then the Child record will never get restored.
	3. If you delete the Child only Child gets deleted and when child is Recovered from the Recycle Bin the Child is again related to the Parent. 
- **NOTE** : 
	1. If you deleted the Parent the you will only see the Deleted Parent in the Recycle Bin you won't see the Child Record in the Bin. Undeleting the Parent will undelete Both Parent and Child. Hence, if you first delete the Child then delete its Parent in this case also you only see the Parent in the Bin and Undeleting the Parent now will only Undelete Parent i.e. now you lost the Child. So, never loose the Parent.
	2. The definition was taken from [This Trail](https://trailhead.salesforce.com/content/learn/projects/build-a-data-model-for-a-recruiting-app/junction-object-job-postings).
	3. If an Object has
		1. 1 MDR its a Child Object.
		2. 2 MDR its a Junction Object.
		3. 1 MDR and 1 Lookup - Its still a Child Object.
___
#### 10. Explain Self Relationship.
- When the object is having a lookup relationship with itself.
- So, 1 record of the same object will lookup another record of the same object.
___
#### 11. Why do we need Relationship?
We have Account object. We know that the Contacts are People working in the Company i.e. Account Object. So, it would make sense that the Contacts working in an Account are related to the Account Record.
___
#### 12. Explain Rollup Summary Field.
- Its a Special Field Type which is only available on the Master Object i.e. the MDR relationship is Mandatory to have this Functionality.
- It is a Read-Only Field.
- It is used to provide 4 types of summary.
	1. count : Provides the total count of Related Child records.
	2. sum : Provides the addition of Number Fields.
	3. min : Provides the value of the number/date-time field which will be the minimum from all the other Related records.
	4. max: Provides the value of the number/date-time field which will be the maximum from all the other Related records.
- **NOTE** : While creating the Rollup summary you choose either to include all the related child records or to include only those records that meet a criteria.
___
#### 13. Can we convert MDR to Lookup or Vice Versa?
- Yes, we can Convert MDR to Lookup and Vice Versa we just need to keep in find the Rules associated to them while converting a Relationship to other type.
- MDR to Lookup : Hard Delete Rollup summary fields.
- Lookup to MDR: All child must have a Parent.
- **Process** : Setup &rarr; Object Manager &rarr; Child Object &rarr; Fields and Relationships &rarr; Relationship Field &rarr; Edit.
___
