**NOTE:** In Salesforce we ensure and manage data quality with the help of 
1. Validation Rules
2. Matching Rules and Duplicate Rules
____
#### 1. What is a Formula Field?
- It is a read only field which derives its value from other fields.
- It can be used to perform calculations Ex: While studying Rollup Summary we did not had the Average so, we can implement the Average using the Rollup Summary.
- A Formula has a Return type i.e. it can only return limited types of values. So, you can only perform calculations for which you have a return type.
	1. Checkbox : Checks box when logic evaluates to true ex: `TODAY() > CloseDate`
	2. Currency
	3. Date
	4. Date/Time
	5. Time
	6. Number
	7. Percent
	8. Text
Ex:
```
/* If Last Name is Blank Checkbox must be Checked */
ISBLANK( Last_Name__c )
```
**Process** : Setup &rarr; Object Manager &rarr; Select an Object &rarr; Fields and Relationships &rarr; New &rarr; Formula
**NOTE** : You can Change the Return Type of the Formula while editing the Field.
____
#### 2. What is Cross Formula Field?
- Its just the implementation of the Formula field in such way that it shows the Parents fields on the Child object.
- Only Parents fields can be shown on the Child Record and not vice versa because the Parent can have multiple children and hence, its not possible to show the Fields that exist on all the Children on Parent.
- This can be done in both MDR and Lookup.
- **Process** : Setup &rarr; Object Manager &rarr; Select Child Object &rarr; Fields and Relationships &rarr; New &rarr; Select Formula as Field Type &rarr; Return type depending on which field of Parent you are referring &rarr; Insert Field.
- You can use the SOQL syntax to access Parent Fields in Formula Field.
```apex
// This is how you access a standard objects field from its Child Object
 Account.Id
 Account.SLA__c 
// This is how you access a custom objects field from its Child Object
 Object_A__r.Id 
 Object_A__r.Name
```
___
#### 3. What is a Validation Rule?
- It is a functionality that uses the Formula Functions to ensures that the data entered in the record for a field meets a certain criteria.
- A Validation Rule returns a Boolean value. And that would decide if the value entered will be saved or not
	- **error** : if validation rule returns `true`
	- **save** : if validation rule returns `false`
- **Process** : Setup &rarr; Object Manager &rarr Select an Object &rarr; Validation Rules &rarr; New
- Ex: 
```apex
/* Record should not be saved if last name is blank */
ISBLANK( Last_Name__c )
/* Now when user tries to save the record without entering the last name then the validation rule will evaluate to true and hence give and error */
```
____
#### 4. Give example of few Formula Functions.
1. ISBLANK : Checks if a Field is Blank.
2. TEXT : converts a number, date, or other value into a text string.
3. TODAY : returns the current date.
4. NOW : returns the current date and time.
5. ISPICKVAL : checks whether a picklist field's value matches a specified value. It returns true if the values match and false if they don't.
___
#### 5. How do you stop the user from entering Duplicate Data?
You can achieve it by
1. Using Matching Rules and Duplicate Rules
2. Creating an Apex Trigger (before insert, before update)
----
#### 6. Why do we need to stop data duplication?
- Duplicate data wastes the Physical Resources of the team i.e. different members accidentally work on same record as they were duplicates.
- It also wastes system resources ex: storage space.
- On top of that if you have lot of duplicate data it will eventually affect you business Analytics ex: A report will not be accurate as it should be because it has duplicates in it. (ex: you want 5+2=7 what if the 2 was a Duplicate record so 5+2+2=9 see the entire Amount Speculations will go wrong just imagine this with Millions or Thousand of Duplicate record)
____
#### 7. What are Matching and Duplicate Rules?
- Matching and Duplicate rules is Salesforce's mechanism to track and prevent duplicates.
1. Matching Rule:
	- Matching rule determines whether a record created/ update by the user is duplicate or not.
	- There are Standard Matching rules for Accounts, Leads and Contacts Object.
	- You can create Custom Matching rules for Accounts, Leads and Contacts only and for all Custom Objects.
	- **Process** : Setup &rarr; Matching Rules &rarr; New &rarr; Select Object &rarr;  Select Matching Criteria &rarr; Activate.
	- Ex: Matching Criteria:
		- Field = Candidate Name 
		- Matching Method = Exact
		- Match Blank Field = false (True means if the field is blank on 2 records they will be treated as duplicates).
	- You can use Filter Logic for multiple Fields (Logic A AND Logic B)
2. Duplicate Rules
	- Duplicate rules define what actions to be carried out whenever a matching rule found match i.e. Duplicate Records.
	- **Process** : Setup &rarr; Duplicate Rules &rarr; New Rule &rarr; Select Object &rarr; Record Level-Security (Enforce or Bypass) &rarr; Actions (On Create or On Update) &rarr; Select which Matching Rule to use &rarr; Activate.
	- So, a Matching rule must be created and it must be Active before Creating and Activating a Duplicate Rule.
	- NOTE: In the Duplicate Rule you can select with which objects field should we match so, if the Fields in the Matching Rule are also present on some other object then Object A records can be checked for Duplicates on Object B.
	- Record Level-Security :
		 1. Enforce : Only flag records as duplicate if the user who is creating/ updating has read access for the other records.
		 2. Bypass : Flag duplicates for the entire object.
	- Actions : 
		1. We determine if we want to Allow the user to create/ update a Duplicate Record.
		2. Whether to Alert the User while creating/ updating a Duplicate Record.
		3. Whether to include the Duplicates in Report or not.
____
