#### 1. Whats the difference between Page Layouts and Lightning Record Pages?
- They both are just 2 ways of customizing the Details Page of a Record.
- Page Layouts have the traditional Approach of Salesforce Classic.
- While Lightning Record Pages have modern Approach of Lightning Flavor and is customized using Lightning App Builder.
- In the end they both determine what is displayed on the Details page. So, can created Multiple Page Layouts/ Lightning Record Pages and Assign them to different users so that they see different information according to there use case.
- **Process** : 
	1. Creating : Setup &rarr; Object Manager &rarr; Page Layouts or Lightning Record Pages &rarr; New
	2. Assigning : Setup &rarr; Object Manager &rarr; Page Layouts or Lightning Record Pages &rarr; View Page Assignments.
**NOTE** : 1 User can only have 1 Page Layout or 1 Lightning Record Page Assigned to it.
___
#### 2. What are Record Types?
- Generally we have same type of records in one Object for a different type of record we create a different Object.
- But, by using the Record Type you can have different types of Records saved in the Same object.
- For ex: Car Loan and Home Loan are 2 Record Types hence, 2 Page Layouts having different Fields and Picklist hence, 2 Types of Records saved in the same Object.
**USE CASE 1:**
- Record Types is the way to have Multiple Page Layouts Assigned to a Single user.
- We know that a User can only have a Single Page Layout Assigned to him but a user can have multiple Record Types Assigned to him.
- Before Creating a Record Type we must create a Page Layout for it. So, we create different Page Layouts with different Fields and Picklists and then Create different Record Types and then we Assign those Record Types to the user.
- So any time a User tries to create a Record he gets an Option to Select the Record Type.
**USE CASE 2:**
- You can have different Page Layouts for Different Profile for the same type of record. Ex: While creating Record of a Home Loan the Admin will see different Page Layout and Front Desk person will see different Page Layout even though the record type is same.
____
#### 3. What is Mini Page Layout?
___
#### 4. What is a Compact Page Layout?
____
