#### 1. What is a Security Model?
- The Security Model in Salesforce determines 2 important questions:
	1. Who is Authenticated?
	2. Who is Authorized to do what?
___
#### 2. Differentiate between Authentication and Authorization.
- Authentication and authorization are two distinct concepts in the context of security:
1. Authentication : 
	- Authentication is the process of verifying the identity of a user or entity attempting to access a system or resource.
	- Salesforce has various Authentication mechanisms
		1. Username and Password
		2. Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)
		3. Single Sign-On (SSO)
		4. Social Sign-On
		5. Trusted IP Ranges
2. Authorization : Authorization determines the access rights and permissions of an authenticated user (i.e. a valid Salesforce user).
____
#### 3. What is a Profile?
1. A Profile is a collection of Settings and Permissions that define what a user can do in the Salesforce Org.
2. A Profile is mandatory for creating a User.
3. We manage
	1. Object Level Security
	2. Field Level Security
	3. Custom App Settings
	4. Tab Settings
	5. Apex Class Access
	6. Flow Access
4. There are some Standard Profiles present in every Salesforce edition
	1. Minimum Access Salesforce - has the Least Privileges
	2. Standard User
	3. System Administrator
	4. Marketing User
5. In a Standard Profile you can only edit
	1. Custom App Settings
	2. Tab Settings
	3. Session Settings
	4. Password Policies
	5. Field Level Security
6. So, you cannot modify Object Level Security and Other Permissions and Settings on the any Standard Profile hence, you must clone the Profile i.e. create a Custom Profile for Users.
7. **Process :** Setup &rarr; Profiles.
____
#### 4. What is a Permission Set?
1. We know that multiple Users can have a same Profile so, the Permissions and Settings granted by the Profile will be available to all users under that Profile. So, the Best Practice is give minimum Permissions at the Profile level and the user Permission Sets to grant additional access to certain users who has the same Profile.
2. So, Permission Sets allows Administrators to grant additional permissions to specific users without changing their profile settings.
3. **Process :** Setup &rarr; Permission Sets. 
4. **NOTE :** 
	1. Permission Set can only grant such permissions that are allowed by the Type of Licence assigned to that User.
	2. A Permission Set has the same Permission and Setting options that are available at Profile level except Session Settings and Login Hours and Login Ip Ranges.
	3. While Assigning the Permission Set to users you can select Expiration date after which the Users won't have the Permission Set for their use.
___
#### 5. What are Permission Set Groups?
1. Generally we create a Permission Set according to a Particular functionality that we want. So, basically a Permission Set has mostly 1 or a few Permissions in it.
2. But we want to give multiple Permission Sets to a User or Users then instead of assigning the Permission Sets individually we create a Permission Set Group which is just a Collection of Permission Sets that exists in the Org.
3. Within the Permission Set group we have an option called Muting Permission Set Group. Using that you can nullify a permission provided by a Permission Set that's included in your Permission Set Group.
4. **Process :** Setup &rarr; Permission Set Groups. 
5. **NOTE :** While Assigning the Permission Set to users you can select Expiration date after which the Users won't have the Permission Set for their use.
____
#### 6. What is the difference between Profiles and Permission Sets?

| Profiles                                                                                                                       | Permission Set                                                                                                                                        |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1. It is madatory to assign a Profile to a User<br/>2. A Profile can have multiple users but a User can only have one Profile. | 1. Assigning a Permission set is optional and depends on the bussiness needs.<br/>2. One user can have multiple Permission Sets assigned to him/ her. |

____
#### 7. What is a Role?
1. Roles are used to control Record Sharing i.e. Grant Access Using Hierarchies.
2. By setting up and Assigning the users a Role we get a Sharing model where the users at the Top of the Role Hierarchy gets visibility to records of users that are below him/ her in the Role Hierarchy.
____
#### 8. What is the difference between Profiles and Role?

| Profiles                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Roles                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1. Profiles are used for Object Level and Field Level Security.<br/>2. In Salesforce Securtiy Model a Profile is mandatory for every user.<br/>3. The Setting and Permissions provided by the Profile can be supplemented by using Permission Set or Permission Set Groups. | 1. Roles are used for creating a Hierarchy for Record Sharing.<br/>2. In Salesforce Securtiy Model Role optional.<br/>3. The Roles Hierarchy only makes sense when OWD settings are Private or Public Read Only. |

_____
