#### 1. What are Reports?
- Reports is an analytical tool which lets us to view and summarize data so, that we can track performance and make better business decisions.
- Reports can also be used to improve the Quality of Data.
- In Salesforce Reports can be accessed from the Reports Tab.
- You can create Reports for both custom and standard Objects.
- The Permissions related to Reports can be managed from Profiles and Permission Sets.
___
#### 2. How to Create a Folder for Report?
- The Reports tab must not be Hidden
- The user must have Create Report Folders permission.
- **Process** : Go to Reports Object &rarr; New Folder
____
#### 3. How to Create a Report? Who can Create a Report?
- The Reports tab must not be Hidden.
- The user must have at least Read permission on the Object for which he wants to create a Report.
- He must have access to the Fields which are included in the Report otherwise certain fields will be missing for him.
- The user must have Create and Customize Reports permission.
- **Process** : Go to Reports Object &rarr; New Report &rarr; Select Report Type
___
#### 4. How to Run a Report? Who can Run a Report?
- The Reports tab must not be Hidden.
- The user must have Run Reports permission.
- The Report which he wants to Run
	1. Must be Shared with him.
	2. He must have the access to the Objects which are included in the Report.
	3. He must have access to the Fields which are included in the Report otherwise certain fields will be missing for him.
	4. He must have access to the Records that are included in the Report otherwise the reports will be missing for him.
____
#### 5. What is a Report Type? What is a Custom Report Type?
- A report type is a template which determines 3 things
	1. Which Objects will be included in the Report.
	2. Which Fields will be available while Creating a Report.
	3. If there are related objects in the report type then it also determines which records will be available in the Report
		1. Include only Those Parent Records which has at least 1 related Record.
		2. Include all the Parent and Child Records i.e. Parent Records may or may not have a Related Record.
- By default Salesforce has Standard Report Types for all Standard Objects. But you can Create Custom Report Types for any Standard or Custom Objects.
- **NOTE** :  Custom Report Types can only be Created by Administrators.
___
#### 6. Can you delete a Report Type?
- Admins can delete Custom Report Types but all the Reports that were built using this Custom Report Type will also get deleted along with the Custom Report Type.
- Standard Report Types cannot be deleted but can be hidden.
- **Process** : 
	1. Delete Custom Report Type : Setup &rarr; Report Types &rarr; Delete
	2. Hide Standard Report Type : Records Tab &rarr; New Report &rarr; Hide the Report Types
___
#### 7. How many Types/ Formats of Reports are there?
There are 4 Types of Reports
	1. Tabular 
	2. Summary
	3. Matrix
	4. Joined
___
#### 8. What is a Tabular Report?
- A Tabular Report is Just like a List View where Records arranged in the Row and the Fields are arranger in Columns.
- A Tabular report has a Filter called Row Limit. So, if you enter a number in the Row Limit filter then only that many Records will be included in the Tabular Report.
- The Row Limit filter is only available in Tabular Report.
- But You cannot use a Tabular Report for Creating a Dashboard.
___
#### 9. What is a Summary Report?
- A Summary Report is a report where you group the Rows by a Column.
- So, basically when you Group Records by Field then the Tabular Report is Converted into Summary Report.
- You can Group Rows by Multiple Fields i.e. apply Group Rows by this Field on Multiple fields.
- The Summary Report has the option to show Subtotal and Total of Records.
	1. Subtotal - Total number of Children of a Parent.
	2. Total - Total number of Children on the Report.
- The Summary Report also give you option to summarize data i.e. Summary Calculation. This is only available on certain fields like Currency.
	1. Sum
	2. Avg
	3. Min
	4. Max
- **Process** : Click on a Field Label &rarr; Group Rows by this Field.
- **NOTE** : You can have a Summary Report on Both a single object and related objects.
____
#### 10. What is a Matrix Report?
- A Matrix Report is a Report where you Group Rows by this Field and Group Columns by this Field Together.
- So, when you group Rows by Column then the Summary report is Converted to a Matrix Report.
___
#### 11. What is a Joined Report?
- A Joined Report is a Report where you group multiple Reports together and build a Single Report.
- A maximum of 5 Reports can be included from different Report Types in a Joined Report.
- You can group rows in a Joined Report but only the Common fields are supported i.e. fields that are same on all the Reports.
- **NOTE** : You can use Joined Report as a Source for Dashboard but the Joined Report must have a Chart in it and only this Chart can be used in the Dashboard i.e. the Dashboard cannot create a seperate chart for Joined Reports.
___
#### 12. Whats the Difference between Group Rows by this Field and Group Columns by this Field.
___
#### 13. List the unique features of all types of Reports.
1. Tabular Report : Has a Filter to Limit Rows i.e. limit the number of records shown in a Report.
2. Summary Report : Has a option to perform Summarize Calculation like Sum, Avg, Min, Max on Currency Fields.
3. Matrix Report : Lets you Group both Rows and Columns.
4. Joined Report : Lets you join multiple Reports together.
- **NOTE** : All the features are Unique i.e. they are only available for that type of Report only.
___




# TEMPORARY
6. How to Create Reports on Duplicate Records?
7. What is a Dashboard and Where can you place it?
8. What is a Dynamic Dashboard?

2. Who can Create a Report? What Permissions are needed for Creating a Report?
Manage Reports in Public Folders


Edit My Reports
Lightning Report Builder
Schedule Reports
Manage all Reports and Dashboards
Subscribe to Reports
Manage Custom Report Types
View Reports in Public Folder
Report Builder

Run Reports
Create and Customize Reports
Create Report Folders

Export Reports
____
