#### 1. What do you mean by Salesforce Organization?
- It represents a single customer's environment within Salesforce's multi-tenant architecture.
- It is the personal/ individual instance of the Salesforce CRM.
____
#### 2. What is an Application in Salesforce?
- Applications in Salesforce means bundling all the Tabs, Objects, Dashboards, etc. that address specific business needs.
- **Process** : Setup &rarr; App Manager &rarr; New Lightning App
___
#### 3. So is Application and Salesforce Cloud same?
- You can say Salesforce Clouds are Standard Apps Provided by the Salesforce which offers solution on a specific area of business operations.
- So yes technically they are same.
____
#### 4. How Salesforce Organizes your Data / Explain Salesforce Data Model.
- Salesforce organizes your data into objects and records.

| Application     | Objects    | Tabs    |  Fields    | Rows     |
|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|:-----|
| A bundle of Objects, Tabs, Homepages, etc.| Consider them as a Database Table, this is where all your records will be stored. | Tabs are used to access the Object in the User Interface. | Fields are like Database Columns. They store values of particular type for Records.| - Records are like rows of Database Table i.e. they are the individual data which is been tracked.     |
By Database Table I mean Relational Database.
___
#### 5. Flow of Salesforce Data Model.
Object &rarr; Tab &rarr; Fields &rarr; Records.
_____
#### 6. Types of Salesforce Objects?
- Most of the Things are Objects in Salesforce. They fall under 2 Types.
	1. Setup Object
		- This is where we do Settings.
		- Ex: User, Profile, etc.
		- NOTE: they are considered Objects because records under them can be referenced in Apex and other places.
	1. Non- Setup Object : This is where we store the Records. They are of 2 Types
		1. Standard Objects : Which are provided by Salesforce ex: Sales Cloud.
		2. Custom Objects : Which are created by the Admins.
- **Process** : Setup &rarr; Object Manager &rarr; Schema Builder or Create (Custom Object or Custom Object from Spreadsheet).
- Custom Object from Spreadsheet : Lets you create and object using `.xlsx` or `.csv` you need to just select the Field Types and the benefit of using this method is that all records in the Spreadsheet will also be imported at the time of Object creation. Tab is automatically Created.
- Schema Builder : Gives you ability to create an Object using the Graphical user interface and lets you visualize the Data model.
- NOTE : 
	- Salesforce Standard Apps can have Custom Objects.
	- A Tab is Compulsory for a Custom Object if you want to work on the Object from UI. In App Launcher you will only see the Objects that have a Tab. 
	- **Process** : Setup &rarr; Tabs &rarr; Custom Object Tabs
___
#### 7. Different types of Fields.
- Like Objects Fields are also of 2 types
	1. Standard Fields : These are field created by Salesforce. Mostly they are on Standard Objects but, some Standard Fields are automatically created on the Custom Objects. These are called System Generated Fields.
	2. Custom Fields : These are fields created by the Admins. Custom Fields can be created on both Standard and Custom Objects.
- **Process** : Setup &rarr; Object Manager &rarr; Select an sObject &rarr; Fields & Relationships &rarr; New &rarr; Data Type.
___
#### 8. What are System Generated Fields?
- System-generated fields are automatically created and maintained by the system. They are of 2 types
	1. Read-Only:
		1. CreatedById : User that Created the Record.
		2. LastModifiedById : User that Updated the Record.
	2. Modifiable Fields :
		1. OwnerId : The User that has the Ownership of the Record.
		2. Name : Can be Manually entered (Text Field) or auto-number.
**NOTE** : An Owner can be a Single User or a Public Group of Users.
___
#### 9. State Standard Objects.
1. Account
2. Contact
3. Leads
4. Opportunity
____
#### 10. What are the Data Types available for the Fields?
1. Text Fields
	1. Text (255 Charecters)
	2. Text Area (Long)
	3. Text Area (Rich)
	4. Text (Encrypted)
2. Number Fields
	1. Auto Number
	2. Number
	3. Percentage
	4. Phone
	5. Currency
3. Date Fields
	1. Date
	2. Date/Time
	3. Time
4. Special Fields
	1. Lookup Relationship
	2. Master-Detail Relationship
	3. Formula
	4. Rollup Summary
5. Other Fields
	1. Checkbox
	2. Picklist
	3. Picklist (Multiselect)
	4. Geolocation
	5. URL
**NOTE** : Consider them as Variables in Apex but they also provide formatting to the Data ex: URL will be displayed as a Clickable and will Redirect you. Currency will have a Logo of your Personal (if set) or Org Currency.
___
