#### 1. What are the different aspects of Security Model?
The Security Model has 4 Aspects
	1. Organization Level Security
	2. Object Level Security
	3. Field Level Security
	4. Record Level Security
**NOTE:** The above order is in hierarchy 
___
#### 2. What is Organization Level Security and How to manage it?
- Organization Level Security is the 1st and highest level within a Salesforce organization.
- These security measures are designed to protect the overall Salesforce environment and ensure the integrity, confidentiality, and availability of data.
- We manage Organization Level Security by:
	1. Maintain list of users : Setup &rarr; Users &rarr; Freeze or Deactivate.
	2. Profile :
		1. Session Settings : When Session should Expire
		2. Password Policies
	3. Expire All Passwords : Setup &rarr; Expire All Passwords
	4. Session Settings : Setup &rarr; Session Settings
	5. Login Access Policies : Setup &rarr; Login Access Policies &rarr; Admins can Login as User
	6. Trusted IP Ranges : Setup rarr; Network Access &rarr; Trusted IP Ranges
___
#### 3. What is Object Level Security and How to manage it?
- It is the second highest level security measure in Salesforce.
- Object-level security determines who can perform CRUD operations on the records of an Object.
- By records I mean records own by the user only.
- We manage Object Level Security from Profiles and Permission Sets.
- There are 2 Aspects to Object Level Security
	1. Tab must not be hidden otherwise the user won't be able to work on the Object from UI : Setup &rarr; Profiles &rarr; Select Profile &rarr; Edit &rarr; Tab Settings &rarr; Select an Object &rarr; Tab Default On OR Default Off
	2. User must have atleast Read permission on the Object otherwise the Object won't be visible : Setup &rarr; Profiles &rarr; Select a Profile &rarr; Standard Object Permissions or Custom Object Permissions &rarr; check Read
**Object Permissions** : Object Permission are divided in 2 Sections
1. Basic Access: User only gets CRUD Permission on records owned by him.
	1. Read
	2. Edit
	3. Create
	4. Delete
2. Data Administration : These Permissions ignore the Sharing Settings i.e. Record Level Security.
	1. View All : User can see all the records present on the Object.
	2. Modify All : User has CRUD Operation Permissions for all the records present on the Object.
___
#### 4. What is Field Level Security and How to manage it?
- Field Level Security is the 3rd Level of Security within the Salesforce Organization.
- Field Level Security defines who can read and edit a fields value for a particular Object.
- We manage Object Level Security from Profiles and Permission Sets.
- **Process** : Setup &rarr; Profile &rarr; Select a Profile &rarr; Field Level Security &rarr; Select an Object &rarr; Edit the field Access.
- Access are of 2 types :
	1. Read : User is able to see the Field and its value on the Record.
	2. Edit : User is able to see and the Edit the Fields value on the Record.
___
#### 5. Explain Salesforce Sharing Model OR What is Record Level Security and How to manage it?
- Record level Security or Sharing setting is the 4th and the lowest level of security in the hierarchy but it is about an important question i.e. who sees whoes records? If a user has Object Level and Field Level security permission in that case the user can only work on the records that are owned by him.
- Record Level Security, Record Sharing, Sharing Settings are all the same thing.
- We manage Record Level Settings from Sharing Settings.
- There are 4 levels withing the Sharing Settings and go down the hierarchy you get more minute control over the record sharing.
	1. Organization Wide Defaults (OWD) settings
	2. Role Hierarchy
	3. Sharing Rules
	4. Manual Sharing
- Other than Manual Sharing the rest 3 are Automatic Sharing Mechanism.
**NOTE** : Grant Access Using Hierarchies, Sharing Rules and Manual Sharing only makes sense when the OWD is set to Restrictive i.e. Private or Public Read Only.
___
#### 6. What is OWD settings?
- It is the 1st level of visibility in Sharing Settings
- **Process** : Setup &rarr; Sharing Setting &rarr; Organization Wide Defaults &rarr; Edit
- We get 3 Settings here:
	1. Default Internal Access : This setting applies to users that are in the Salesforce Organization
		- Private : Users can see records that are owned by them
		- Public Read Only : Users can see each others records i.e. all records present on that object in read only mode.
		- Public Read/ Write : Users can see all records present on that object and can also edit the records. But only the owner of the Record can delete the record.
		- Public Read/ Write/ Transfer : For Case and Lead Object only. So, anyone can Read, Edit the records and anyone can Transfer the ownership of a record which is not owned by them.
		- Controlled by Parent : It means that whatever permissions a user has for the Master Objects Records he gets the same permissions for the Details Objects Records.
			1. Custom Objects : Sharing Settings for any Custom Details object is always Controlled by Parent and you cannot change this.
			2. Standard Object : The Sharing settings of a Standard Child object can be changed from Controlled by Parent to other Access level.
	2. Default External Access : This setting applies to users that are not member of the Salesforce organization ex: Community Users. The Default External Access must be less than or equal to whats provided by Default Internal Access i.e. The External Users must not have more access that that of Internal Users.
	3. Grant Access Using Hierarchies
**NOTE** : 
1. Sharing Settings only let you Read and Edit records you cannot delete a Record until you become the owner of the Record.
2. If you are using Controlled by Parent Access then it should be same for both Default Internal Access and Default External Access.
___
#### 7. Explain sharing of Records using Role Hierarchy.
- Sharing of Records using Role Hierarchy means anyone who is above in hierarchy than the record owner will automatically get access to the records of the subordinates.
- **Process** : 
	1. Setup Roles in the Organization : Setup &rarr; Roles &rarr; Setup Roles
	2. Setup &rarr; Sharing Settings &rarr; Organization Wide Defaults &rarr; Edit &rarr; Grant Access Using Hierarchies.
**NOTE** :
1. By default Grant Access Using Hierarchies is enabled for the Standard Objects and Cannot be disabled.
2. You can only Disable Grant Access Using Hierarchies for Custom Objects.
3. Sharing Records using Grant Access Using Hierarchies only makes sense if the Default Internal Access is Private because if its Public Read/ Write the everyone is able to Read/ Write all Records.
____
#### 8. What is Sharing Rules?
- **Process** : Setup &rarr; Sharing Settings &rarr; Sharing Rules &rarr; Select Object &rarr; New
- Sharing Rules give you 2 ways to share Records.
	1. Based on Record Owner : You can Share Records Owned by the Members
		1. A Public Group
		2. Roles
		3. Roles and Subordinates
	2. Based on Criteria : It means the Records which meet certain criteria will be shared
- You can share the Records using above to ways with 
	1. A Public Group
	2. Roles
	3. Roles and Subordinates
- You need to choose the level of Access : Read Only, Read/ Write.
**NOTE** :
1. You cannot create Sharing Rule for a Details object if its OWD Default Internal Access is Controlled by Parent.
2. Hence, you can never Create a Sharing Rule for a Custom Details Object as you cannot change its OWD settings.
___
#### 9. What is Manual Sharing?
- Manual Sharing is the only Sharing Setting that talks about Sharing Individual Records rest 3 Sharing Settings are all about Sharing Bulk Records.
- **Process** : 
	1. Setup &rarr; Sharing Settings &rarr; check Manual User Record Sharing.
	2. Open a Record &rarr; Sharing &rarr;
		1. Share With : User, Public Group, Roles, Roles and Subordinates
		2. Access : Read Only, Read/ Write.
**NOTE** :
1. You Cannot Manual Share a Detail Record whose OWD is Controlled by Parent.
2. 
___

___
#### 11. Freeze user vs Deactivate user?
1. By Freezing a User you are temporarily relieving him from his position but he still consumes a Salesforce User Licence. Basically the User is Still Active as far as the System is Concerned. When you unfreeze the user the user can login using his last password and username.
2. By Deactivating a User the records are still retained by the system but, the Login credentials are invalidated permanently. So, next time if you reactivate the user, the user will have to go through create new password and verify.
___
#### 12. Can we delete a User?
No, we cannot delete a User in Salesforce. We can only Freeze or Deactivate a User.
___
#### 13. Can we Reactivate a User?
- Yes, we can always reactivate a user. 
- **Process** : Setup &rarr; Users &rarr; Select the Deactivated user &rarr; Edit &rarr; check Active.
___
#### 14. Can we change details of a User?
Yes we can change all the details of an existing User including
	1. User Name
	2. Alias
	3. First and Last Name
	4. Email Id
___
#### 16. Can you change Sharing Settings using Permission Set?
- No, You cannot manipulate Sharing Settings using Permission Set.
- Permission can only provide additional access to those settings that are provided by Profile.
___
#### 17. Can you delete a Salesforce Organization?
- No, You cannot directly delete a Salesforce Organization.
- You need to Deactivate the Organization 1st. 
	- For 1st 30 Days you can Login to Reactivate the Salesforce Organization.
	- Then for next 30 Days the Salesforce Organization will be locked and you must contact Salesforce Customer Support to reactivate it.
	- So, after 60 Days of Deactivation of the Salesforce Organization it will be permanently deleted and irretrievable.
- **Process** :
	1. Deactivate an Org : Setup &rarr; Company Information &rarr; Deactivate.
	2. Reactivate an Org : Setup &rarr; Company Information &rarr; Reactivate.
___
#### 18. How to hide an app from a User and mark another app as Default?
- We manage App Access permissions from Profiles and Permission Sets.
- **Process**:
	1. Hide a App : Setup &rarr; Profiles &rarr; Select a Profile &rarr; Edit &rarr; under Custom App Settings &rarr; uncheck Visible for the App.
	2. Default Open App at Login : Setup &rarr; Profiles &rarr; Select a Profile &rarr; Edit &rarr; under Custom App Settings &rarr; check Default for an App.
____
#### 19. How to manage Tab access?
- We manage Tab access from Profiles and Permission Sets.
- We have 3 Access settings for Tabs
	1. Default off : Tab is not shown in the Navigation Bar but it can searched from the App Launcher or the User can add it Manually to the Navigation Bar.
	2. Default on : Tab is added to the Users Navigation Bar.
	3. Tab Hidden : Tab is hidden from the user interface i.e. you won't be able to search the Object from the App Launcher so user won't be able to work on that object from the User Interface.
___
#### 20. Whats the Difference between Hiding a Tab and removing Object access through the Object Level Security?
- By Hiding Tab for an Object you are only hiding the Tab from the User Interface for the Users. So, users won't be able to work on the Object from the User Interface but they can still work on the Object from the Apex and Data Import Tools.
- But Object Level Security applies on all the methods through which a user can work on the Object so, if there is no access to the Object for a User then the User will not be able to work on the Object no matter from where he is trying to work i.e. Apex, Data Import tools, etc.
___
#### 21. What is the Difference between Hiding a Field from Page Layout and hiding the Field from Field Level Security? OR  In how many ways can you make a field mandatory? And which should you prefer?
- Fields can be marked mandatory by 4 ways
	1. Page Layout (Never Use)
	2. Validation Rule (Use to make field Mandatory for some users or Profiles or Roles)
	3. Field Metadata (Use to make field Mandatory for all the users)
	4. Apex Trigger Validation (Use to make field Mandatory for some users or Profiles or Roles)
- You should never use Page Layout to mark a field as Mandatory because this method is only enforced if the data is been inserted using the Same Page Layout. If someone enters data using Apex, Data Loader or a different Page Layout it will be committed to the Database.
**Process** : Field Metadata : Setup &rarr; Object Manager &rarr; Select Object &rarr; Select/ Create a Field &rarr; check `Required` : Always require a value in this field in order to save a record.
____
#### 22. Who can change Navigation Bar Tabs?
If users can change Navigation Bar Tabs depends on 2 things
1. Setup &rarr; App Manager &rarr; Edit App &rarr;  Disable End user customization of nav items in this app.
2. Setup &rarr; Profiles &rarr; Select Profile &rarr; Overwrite users' personal tab customizations.
___
#### 23. How to Login to Salesforce?
Depends on in which Environment you want to Login
1. Production Environment : `login.salesforce.com`
2. Sandbox Environment : `test.salesforce.com`
____
#### 24. On which Standard Objects you cannot create MDR or Lookup Relationship?
1. User object : It only supports Hierarchical Relationship.
2. And Standard Objects can't be on Details side hence, you won't see MDR option while creating a Field on a Standard Object.
____
