#### 1. What is Object Relationship?
- Object Relationships are Special Field Types which lets you connect objects to each other.
- There are mainly 3 Object Relationships
	1. Master-Detail
	2. Lookup
	3. Hierarchical Relationship (Only available on User object) : Lets you lookup to other Users on User Detail Page.
- By using Master-Detail we create Junction-Object.
- By using Lookup we create Self Relationship.
___
#### 2. How many object can be Related to each other?
- It depends on the type of Relationship field that you chose
- The total number of relationships that an object can have with other sObjects are 40.
- The total number of Master-Detail that an object can have with other object are 2.
- So, if you created 2 MDR then you can only create 38 Lookup Relationships.
___
#### 3. Explain Master-Detail Relationship.
- The object on which you create the Master-Detail Relationship becomes Detail and the object this field refers becomes the Master.
- 3 Rules of MDR :
	1. Every Details record must have a Master Record associated with it.
	2. When a user deletes the master record, all detail records are deleted. Hence, its often called as a Tightly coupled Relationship. And this deletion is known as Cascade Delete.
	3. The ownership and sharing of a detail record are determined by the master record.
- Master-Detail Relationship provides you the Rollup Summary Functionality.
- **NOTE** : 
	1. Master also known as Parent and Detail also known as Child.
	2. A Parent cannot become the Child of the same object.
	3. A Parent can be the Child of Some other object. Here also, MDR Rules will apply.
	4. Undeleting the Parent will also bring the Child Records back.
	5. If you only deleted the Child and Restoring it, it will be Related back to its Parent automatically.
	6. A Standard object can only become Parent it cannot be a Child.
___
#### 4. How to Reparent a Details Record?
- By default a Child's Parent cannot be Changed. 
- **Process** : Object Manager &rarr; Select Details Object &rarr; Fields and Relationships &rarr; Go to the Master Detail Relationship Field &rarr; Edit &rarr; Allow Reparenting
___
#### 5. Explain Lookup Relationship.
- In Lookup Relationship the ideology of Parent and Child is absent.
- It simply links one object to another object.
- So, the rules of MDR are not here
	1. no need to compulsorily lookup other record.
	2. deleting the looked-up record does not delete the other record.
	3. If Object B has a Lookup with Object A then also Object A can have a Lookup Relationship with Object B unlike what we had in MDR i.e. a Parent cannot be the Child of its own Child Object.
____
#### 6. How to make Parent Mandatory in Lookup Relationship?
Setup &rarr; Object Manager &rarr; Child Object &rarr; Fields and Relationships &rarr; Lookup Field &rarr; Edit &rarr; check Required
___
#### 7. What happens if the Parent of a Child Record in a Lookup Relationship is deleted?
- While creating a Lookup Relationship or by editing you get the Option
	- What to do if the lookup record is deleted?
		1. Clear the value of this Field (not applicable if field is marked required)
		2. Don't allow deletion of the lookup record that's part of a lookup relationship.
____
#### 8. Explain Junction-Object.
- When an object has MDR or Lookup Relationship with 2 objects then its called a Junction Object.
- The behavior of a Junction Object depends on which relationship fields are used to create the relationship.
	1. 2 MDR
	2. 2 Lookup
	3. 1 MDR and 1 Lookup
- The 1st Master Object becomes the Primary and controls the ownership and sharing.
- **NOTE** : If you delete both the Parents then the Child record will never get restored.
___
#### 9. Explain Self Relationship.
- When the object is having a lookup relationship with itself.
- So, 1 record of the same object will lookup another record of the same object.
___
#### 10. Why do we need Relationship?
We have Account object. We know that the Contacts are People working in the Company i.e. Account object. So, it would make sense that the Contacts working in an Account are related to each other.
___
#### 11. Explain Rollup Summary Field.
- Its a Special Field Type which is only available on the Master Object.
- It is a Read-Only Field.
- It is used to provide 4 types of summary.
	1. count : Provides the total count of Related Child records.
	2. sum : Provides the addition of Number Fields.
	3. min : Provides the value of the number/date-time field which will be the minimum from all the other Related records.
	4. max: Provides the value of the number/date-time field which will be the maximum from all the other Related records.
- **NOTE** : While creating the Rollup summary you choose either to include all the related child records or to include only those records that meet a criteria.
___
#### 12. Can we convert MDR to Lookup or Vice Versa?
- Yes we can just adhere to the MDR and Lookup rules.
- MDR to Lookup : Hard Delete Rollup summary fields.
- Lookup to MDR: All child must have a Parent.
- **Process** : Setup &rarr; Object Manager &rarr; Child Object &rarr; Fields and Relationships &rarr; Relationship Field &rarr; Edit.
___
