#### 1. What is a Picklist?
A picklist is a Field type which has predefined values and the user can select values from this predefined set.
___
#### 2. How many types of Picklists are there?
- There are 4 types of Picklists
	1. Picklist
	2. Picklist (Multiselect)
	3. Global Picklist value Set
	4. Dependent Picklist
___
#### 3. What is a Picklist (Multiselect)?
A Multiselect Picklist is a Picklist where the user can select multiple values from the predefined values.
____
#### 4. What is a Global Picklist Value Sets?
- If we want to have same picklist on multiple objects then instead of creating the Picklist values again and again we create a Global Picklist Value Set so, that while creating the Picklist on multiple objects we can directly use the Values of the Global Picklist Value Set.
- **Process** : 
	1. Setup &rarr; Picklist Value Sets &rarr; New
	2. Setup &rarr; Object Manager &rarr; Fields and Relationship &rarr; New &rarr; Select Picklist or Picklist (Multiselect) as Field Type &rarr; Use global picklist value set
____
#### 5. What is a Dependent Picklist? OR What is Field Dependency?
- A Dependent Picklist is a Picklist whose predefined values depend on which value you selected in the Controlling Field.
- **Process** : 
	- This process will only be available if there is a Picklist and on that object and a Field which can be a Controlling Field.
	- Setup &rarr; Object Manager &rarr; Field Dependency &rarr; Select Controlling Field and Dependent Field.
	- Controlling Fields can be Checkbox, Picklist, Formula.
	- Dependent Fields can be Picklist, Picklist (Multiselect).
**NOTE:** A Standard Field can only be a Controlling field it cannot be a Dependent Field.
___
#### 6. Can you disable the value of a Picklist Field?
____
#### 7. What will happen if you disable a value of a Picklist Field which is used in a Record?
____
#### 8. What will happen if you disable a value of a Picklist Field which is used in for Field Dependency?
____