#### 1. What is Apex?
- Apex is a 
	1. Strongly Typed
	2. Case insensitive (ex: A == a);
	3. Object Oriented programming language.
	4. With a Syntax that's similar to Java and acts like Database Procedures.
- It is a Server Side Language which runs on Force.com platform and is built to run in a Multi tenant Environment. <br/>
**NOTE** : 
- Apex is not a general purpose programming language it's built for Business Operations done on Salesforce so it has some Limitations.
	1. Apex cannot be used for creating UI elements. If you want to create a UI use
		1. Visual Force Page
		2. lightning web components
	2. It cannot Render elements in the user interface other than error messages ex: `variable.addError('Field cannot be blank')` method.
	3. Change standard functionality—Apex can only prevent the functionality from happening, or add additional functionality. Ex: Using `addError()` method prevents the Save operation from happening or a Trigger can Backup the Data deleted by Delete Operation.
	4. Apex cannot Create temporary files in the Database if you Commit something then its Committed. 
___
#### 2. Difference between Strongly typed and Weakly typed Language.

| Strongly Typed     | Weakly Typed     |
|:-----|:-----|
|1. Variables must be declared with there DataTypes before they are used. <br/> 2. Variables are bound to their DataTypes and can only store data which matches their DataType. <br/> 3. Does not support Implicit Conversion i.e. you have to do manual type casting.|1. Variables can be used without prior declaration. <br/> 2. Any type of value can be stored in them. <br/> 3. Supports Implicit Conversion.|

____
#### 3. What is a Data Type? What are the Data Types supported in Apex?
- Data types in programming defines the kind of data that can be stored and manipulated by a variable. So, a Data type tells the Form, Size and Behavior of the Value stored in a Variable. 
- Apex has 2 Types of Data Types : Primitive and Non-Primitive.
1. Primitive Data Types:
	1. Boolean (true false null)
	2. Integer (32-bit number without Decimal Point)
	3. Long (64-bit number without Decimal Point)
	4. Decimal (32-bit Number with Decimal Point. Use for Currency Fields)
	5. Double (64-bit Number with Decimal Point. Use when you want more digits after the decimal point)
	6. Id (18-character Lightning Platform record identifier. 15-character Id is automatically converted to 18 by Apex)
	7. String (Any set of characters surrounded by single quotes)
	8. Date (Stores Date. Cannot perform arithmetic operations on Data variables directly use Data Class Methods)
	9. Time	
	10. Datetime (Stores Date and Time. Cannot perform arithmetic operations on Data variables directly use Datetime Class Methods)
	11. Blob (Stores Images and other Attachments)
2. Non-Primitive Data Types:
	1. Collections
	2. Classes
	3. sObjects (either generic `sObject` data type or specific ex: Account or Contact data type)
	4. Interfaces
	5. Enums <br/>

```apex
public class DataTypes {
    Boolean flag =true;
    Integer rollNumber=69;
    Long salary =969694575632L;
    Decimal PI =3.14;
    Double digits =2.7182818284D;
    Id accId ='0015i00000b6lpEAAQ';
    String myName ='John Wick';
    Date dob = Date.newInstance(1998, 09, 10); //Year, Month, Date
    Time birthTime = Time.newInstance(13 , 30, 5, 0); //Hour, Minute, Seconds, MilliSeconds
    DateTime dobAndTime = DateTime.newInstance(1998, 09, 10, 13, 30, 5); //Year, Month, Date, Hour, Minute, Seconds
    
    public void displayExamples(){ 
        System.debug('Boolean flag ='+flag);
        System.debug('Integer rollNumber ='+rollNumber);
        System.debug('Long salary ='+salary);
        System.debug('Decimal PI ='+PI);
        System.debug('Double digits ='+digits);
        System.debug('Id accId ='+accId);
        System.debug('String myName ='+myName);
        System.debug('Date dob ='+dob);
        System.debug('Time birthTime ='+birthTime);
        System.debug('DateTime dobAndTime ='+dobAndTime);  
    }
}
```

- **NOTE** : All the Variables created are Initialized to null no matter what data type was used to create the Variable.
____
#### 4. In how many ways can you Invoke Apex?
We invoke Apex in the following ways:
1. Executing Synchronously
	1. Execute Anonymous Window
	2. Trigger
2. Executing Asynchronously
	1. Future Methods
	2. Queueable Apex
	3. Batch Apex
	4. Scheduled Apex
3. Other ways
	1. Exposing Apex Methods as SOAP Web Services
	2. Exposing Apex Classes as REST Web Services
	3. Visualforce Classes
	4. Lightning Web Components
____
#### 5. What is the Difference between Synchronous and Asynchronous Apex?

|Synchronous|Asynchronous|
|---|---|
|1. Synchronous means occuring or existing at the Same Time.  <br>2. Synchronous Apex means entire Apex code is executed in one single go.|1. Asynchronous means not occuring or not existing at the Same Time.  <br>2. Asynchronous apex is executed when resources are available. So any calling method which calls Asynchronous apex won't wait for outcome of Asynchronous call. Calling method will go on further execution in code. And Asynchronous execution happens in separate thread and then it will return to main program.|

____
#### 6. When should you prefer Synchronous or Asynchronous Apex invocation?
Use
1. Synchronous Apex
	1. If you want the response to be quick ex: While use is interacting with a lwc or VF-Page.
	2. If your operation is within the Synchronous Apex Governor Limits.
2. Asynchronous Apex
	1. If your operation is a long running operation ex: Changing Field values of lot's of records using Batch Class.
	2. When you want to schedule the Apex.
	3. If your operation need more resources than that of Synchronous Apex Governor Limits.
____
#### 7. When should you use Apex?
1. Perform complex validation over multiple objects.
2. Create complex business processes that are not supported by workflow.
3. Attach custom logic to another operation, such as Updating a record, so that it occurs whenever the operation is executed, regardless of whether it originates in the user interface, a Visualforce page, lwc ex: Creating Trigger for Backing up Records that are been deleted.
____
#### 8. Whats DML and SOQL
- The Records are saved in the Salesforce Objects.
- **SOQL** : SOQL is used to retrieve Records from the Salesforce Objects. So, SOQL does Read Operations.
- **DML** : After you have done editing the Records in Apex you need to Commit the changes to the Salesforce Database and for that we have DML. So, DML does Write Operations.
____
#### 9. Whats an sObject Data Type?
- A sObject represents a Salesforce Object. You can use sObject as a generic data type to store any Salesforce Object's record or you can use specific Salesforce Objects SOAP API Name to store that Object's record only.
- A sObject variable represents a row of data and can only be declared in Apex.
- If you declare `Account accRecord = new Account()` the `accRecord` variable will have the Properties of the Account Standard Object.

```apex
public class Demo{
    public static void usingGenericSobject(){
        sObject myRecord = new Account();
        myRecord = [SELECT Id, Name, Rating, SLA__c FROM Account LIMIT 1];
        System.debug(myRecord);
        
        if(myRecord != null && myRecord.get('Rating') !=null){
            myRecord.put('Rating', null); /* You cannot use dot notation to access fields while using Generic sObject*/
            myRecord.put('SLA__c', null);
            update myRecord;
        }
        System.debug(myRecord);
    }
}
```

- **NOTE** : 
	1. You cannot use dot notation to access fields while using Generic sObject as the Data Type. You need to use `.get('FieldName')` to get Fields value and `.put('FieldName')` to edit Fields value.
	2. So, working with Normal sObject Data Types ex: Account would be easier that Generic sObjects.
	3. You cannot modify System-generated fields, such as Created By or Last Modified Date using Apex or through UI.
	4. If you have a Object API or Field API referenced in a Apex code then you won't be able to Modify API Name, Change Field Type, Delete the Field/Objects.
___
