#### 1. What is a Class?
- In Object Oriented Programming a Class is a Blueprint for Objects.
- A Class encapsulates the Class Members which defines the Properties and Behavior of the Object.
- Class is a user-defined data type using which we create Objects.
- In Apex you can only have 1 inner Class i.e. a class defined within another class.
___
#### 2. How will you define a Class?
To define a Class
1. You need to have an access modifier. The Top-most Class in Apex cannot be `private` . And the inner class is by default `private`.
2. You can have additional Definition modifiers ex: `Virtual`,`ABSTRACT`, `WITH SHARING` and `WITHOUT SHARING`. 
3. You must use the `class` keyword. And give a name to the Class.
4. Additionally you can have `EXTENEDS` or `Implements` Keyword. You can use them both together.

```apex
/* SYNTAX
|| this symbol refers OR 
[] this means the keywords are Optional 
&& this means these can be used together */ 

public|| global [virtual || with sharing || without sharing || abstract] class ClassName [extends className || && implements singleOrMultipleInterfaces] {
	//Class Body

	//The inner class itself is optional and depends on requirement
	private || public || global [virtual || with sharing || without sharing] class ClassName [extends className || && implements singleOrMultipleInterfaces] {
	//Inner Class Body
	}
}
```

- **NOTE** : The only time the Top-most class can be `private` is when its marked with `@IsTest` annotation. 
___
####  3. What is a Variable?
- A Variable is a Named Storage in programming which holds a Value that's assigned to it.
- There are certain Characteristics of a Variable
	1. Declaration : Variable must be declared before its used.
	2. Data Type  : A Variable in Apex must have a Data Type.
	2. Static or Instance : A Variable can be Static or Instance Variable.
	4. Class or Local Scope : A Variable can have a Class or Local Scope.
- **NOTE** : You cannot use a Reserved keyword for the Variable name ex: list, set, map, abstract, if, else, virtual, static cannot be variable's name.
___
#### 4. How will you define a Variable?
To define  a Variable
1. By default all Variables are `private` and non-static optionally you can use `public`, `final` or `static` keyword.
2. It must have a Data Type and a name.
3. Optionally you can assign a value to the variable.
```apex
[public | private | protected | global] [final] [static] data_type variable_name [= value];
```

___
#### 5. Declaration vs Initialization

|  Declaration    |   Initialization   |
|:-----|:-----|
| Declaration is when you Declare a Variable for the 1st time.      |  Initialization is when you assign a value to the Variable for the First Time.   |

- **NOTE** : 
	1. All Apex variables, whether they’re class member variables or method variables, are initialized to null. Make sure that you initialize your variables to appropriate values before using them.
	2. `null` means the absence of a value. If you Try to perform an Operation on a Variable that's `null` you will get an Error `System.NullPointerException: Attempt to de-reference a null object`. Ex: `Integer i; Integer j=10; System.debug(i+j);`
	3. Ex: Boolean flag; is not be default false its `null` till you assign false to it.
____
#### 6. What is an Instance of a Class OR What is an Object?
- In Object Oriented Programming we focus on modeling the Real World Objects/ Problems in the Programs.
- Object is a run-time entity.
- It is an instance of the class.
- So, Objects in Apex are just entites that have some Properties and Behaviors which were defined in the Class.

```apex
public class Car {
    // Properties i.e. Variables
    String typeofCar;
    String color;
    String brand;
    
    // Behaviour i.e. Methods
    public void carInfo(){
        System.debug('Brand ='+brand+' '+'color ='+color+' '+'type ='+typeofCar);
    }
    
    public static void createCars(){
        // Objects i.e. Instance of a Class
        Car car1 = new Car();
        car1.typeofCar ='Sports';
        car1.color ='Black';
        car1.brand ='Audi';
        
        // 2nd Instance of the Class
        Car car2 = new Car();
        car2.typeofCar ='Jeep';
        car2.color ='Red';
        car2.brand ='Gurkha';
        
        car1.carInfo();
        car2.carInfo();
    }
}

// To Run
Car carObject = new Car(); /* Default constructor is used to create an Instance of the Class */
carObject.createCars(); // Calling Methods using the Object
```
___
#### 7. What do you mean by Class Members?
- Variables and Methods declared inside a Class are Called Class Members.
- Class Members are of 2 types
	1. Static : Variables and Methods that are declared `static`.
	2. Non-Static : Any Variable and Method that's not `static`.
___ 
#### 8. How do we access the Members defined in a Class.
We access Class Members in 2 Way:
1. **By Creating an Object :** We access Non-Static Class Members by creating an Object.
2. **By Class Name** :  We access Static Class Members by the Class Name
___
#### 9. Explain `static` keyword.
- When we declare a Class Member as `static` then that member is associated with the Class i.e. All instances of the same class share a single copy of the static variable.
- A `static` variable holds its value until the end of the Transaction and is shared by all the Objects of that Class.
- Before an object of a class is created, all static member variables in a class are initialized, and all static initialization code blocks are executed. These items are handled in the order in which they appear in the class.
- They’re initialized only when a class is loaded i.e. memory is allocated to them once, while Instance Members will be allocated seperate memory for each Instance of the Class.
- You can only have `static` members in the Top-most Class.
- **NOTE** : 
	1. You cannot access a Non-Static Member inside a Static Method.
	2. But you can access a Static Member inside a Non-Static Method.
	3. You cannot use Static in Inner Classes it can only be used in Top Level Class.
___
#### 10. Explain `final` keyword.
- We use `final` keyword when we want to make a variable Constant.
- A Constant variable is a variable whose value cannot be changed after the Initialization.
- As we know that all Variables are Initialized to `null` in Apex, the Constants will also be Initialized to `null` and hence, you won't be able to Assign a Different value to it.
- There are 2 ways to Assign a value to a Constant variable before its manually initialized i.e. if you Initialize a Constant Variable then the below methods won't be able to change the value.
	1. Static Code Block i.e. Initialization Code Block.
	2. Custom Constructor.
___
#### 11. What is a Method?
- A Method is a code block that performs certain Operations.
- A Method defines what behavior the Objects of Class will have.
- It is mandatory that a Method must have a return type. A method can return
	1. `void` : It means that the method does not return a value.
	2. Any other Data Type : It means the method returns a value of this Data Type.
- If a method is returning a Value then its mandatory that the last statement of the code block must be a `return` statement that returns a value of the same Data Type as of the return type.
- A Method can be Parameterized or Non-Parameterized.
- **NOTE** : All methods must be named uniquely and if similar names are used then the Signature must be different.
___
#### 12. How will you define a Method?
To define  a Method
1. By default Methods are `private` optionally you can have `protected`,`public`,`global`.
2. You can use definition modifiers like `static` or `override`.
3. The method must have a return type either `void` or some data type and method must have a Name.
4. The method can optionally have Parameters.

```apex
[private || protected || public || global] [static] [override] returnType methodName([parameters]){
	//Method Body
}
```

___
#### 13. How to ensure that 2 methods have different signatures if they have same name? What is Method Overloading?
Method overloading means one class has multiple methods with same name. This is achieved by:
1. The methods must not accept same number of Parameters.
2. If they accept the same number of Parameters then their DataTypes must be different.
3. If the Number of Parameters and Data Types are both same then the Order of Parameters must be different.
----
#### 14. Differentiate between Parameterized and Non-Parameterized Methods.

|  Non-Parameterized    |  Parameterized    |
|:-----|:-----|
| Does not accept any arguments.| It accepts arguments and then acts accordingly.|

____

#### 15. What is a return type of a Method?
A return type means which type of value can a method return in it's return statement.
____
#### 16. Explain class member vs local member OR What is the Difference between Class Scope and Local Scope?

| Class Member     | Local Member     |
|:-----|:-----|
| - Class Members are Variable that are declared at the Class Level i.e. outside of any other code block but within the Classes Block. <br/> - A Class member can be static or instance variable. <br/> - A Class Variable can be accessed from anywhere inside a Class or a Class that extends this class i.e. the scope of a Class Member is Wide.| - A Local Member is a Variable which declared inside a Code block ex: a Method is a Code Block. <br/> - The Local Member can only be accessed from withing the Code Block and ceases to exist outside of the code block, hence `static` is not allowed on Local Variables. <br/> - The Local Variables are only created for temporary storage only for ex: We use Integer i in Traditional for loops      |

**How scope works**
1. You cannot name 2 Members same if they are in the same scope.
2. You cannot access a Local Member outside the Scope. But the Class Members can be accessed inside the Scope.

```apex
public class Demo{
	List<Account> accList = new List<Account>(); // Class Member
	public void display(){
		List<Account> accList = new List<Account>(); /* This is a Local member this list is completely different from that of the Class Member This list can Only be accessed within this display() method*/
		for(List<Account> accList :[SELECT Id FROM Account]){
		/* This new accList is not allowed why? because you already created an accList in the display() method hence, the scope is same and you cannot have the same variable name twice within a scope*/
		}
	}
}
```

- **NOTE** : Local variable names are evaluated before class names. If a local variable has the same name as a class, the local variable hides methods and variables on the class of the same name.
____
#### 17. What are Constructors?
- A Constructor is a Special block of Code which is invoked while creating an Object of a Class using `new` keyword.
- A Constructor can be Non-Parameterized or Parameterized. If you write a constructor that takes arguments, you can then use that constructor to create an object using those arguments.
- In a Apex Class even if you don't create a Constructor there is an already present Default Non-Parameterized `public` Constructor. 
- There are certain characteristics of a Constructor.
	1. The Name of a Constructor is Similar to that of the Class.
	2. A Constructor does not have a return type.
	3. Constructor cannot be `static`.
	4. A Constructor cannot be Private or Protected.
	5. The Constructor is the only thing that's not inherited by the Object of the Class i.e. `myObject.MyConstructor()` won't work.
	6. A Constructor is only called once per Instance.
- **NOTE** : 
	1. Once you create a constructor for a class, you no longer have access to the default, no-argument public constructor.
	2. If you have multiple Constructor's make sure they have different signatures.4

```apex
public class Car {
    // Properties i.e. Variables
    String typeofCar;
    String color;
    String brand;
    
    // Behaviour i.e. Methods
    public void carInfo(){
        System.debug('Brand ='+brand+' '+'Color ='+color+' '+'Type ='+typeofCar);
    }
    
    // Constructor
    public Car(String typeofCar, String color, String brand){
        this.typeofCar = typeofCar;
        this.color = color;
        this.brand = brand;
    }
}
// Run
Car car1 = new Car('Sports', 'Black', 'BMW');
car1.carInfo();

Car car2 = new Car('Jeep','Red','Gurkha');
car2.carInfo();
```

___
#### 18. What is an Interface? Explain `Interface` and `Implements` keywords.
- While creating a Class we use `Class` keyword to create an Interface replace`Class` keyword with `Interface` keyword.
- An Interface is just like a Class but it has few rules
	1. You cannot have Variable in an Interface i.e. you can only have methods.
	2. You don't use any access modifiers in the Interface.
	3. Method only has a return type and the Method name i.e. you only have the Method signature no body.

```apex
public Interface Demo{
    string myMethod();
    void display();
}
```

Now, some Class can use `Implements` keyword and Implement this Interface.

```apex
public class MyClass implements Demo {
    public String myMethod(){
        return 'This is a String';
    }
    
    public void display(){
        
    }
}
```

- Any Class that Implements an Interface must
	1. Define the Body of all the Methods that are present in the Interface.
	2. You can keep the Body empty but you must Implement the methods.
___
#### 19. How can 1 Class extend another Class?
- A Class can extend another Class by doing so ClassB will inherit ClassA i.e. you will be able to access the Variables and Methods of ClassA from ClassB's Instances.
- But ClassB can only Extend Class A if ClassA is `virtual` or `abstract` class.
- So, you need to use `virual` or `abstract` Definition Modifier on ClassA and then use `extends` keyword while defining ClassB.

```apex
// ClassA
public virtual class ClassA {
    protected Integer roll=10;
}

//Seperated ClassB
public class ClassB extends ClassA {
    public void myDisplay(){
        System.debug(roll); // roll is present on ClassA
    }
}
```

___
#### 20. What's method overriding OR explain `Override` keyword?
1. If you want to extend ClassA then it must be either `virtual` or `abstract`.
2. Method overriding simply means ClassA and ClassB both have a method that has same signature but by using `override` keyword method of ClassB can have the same signature of the ClassA's method but ClassB's method will have a different implementation of its own. ClassB's method can only `override` ClassA's method if the ClassA's method is `virtual` or `abstract`.
```apex
// ClassA
public virtual class ClassA {
    protected Integer roll=10;
    
  	public virtual void display(){
        System.debug(roll);
    }
}

//ClassB
public class ClassB extends ClassA{
    
    public override void display(){
        System.debug('Hi'); // ClassB's implementation of display() method
    }
}
```

____
#### 21. Difference between `Virtual` Class, `Abstract` Class.

| `virtual` classes and methods                                                                                                                                                           | `abstract` classand methods                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 1. `virtual` methods are just normal methods but the can be overrided.<br/>2. `virtual` class can contain Normal methods and `virtual` methods but it cannot have an `abstract` method. | 1. An `abstract` method is just like the method definitions of `Interface`but `abstract`method can have access modifiers.<br/>2. An `abstract` method can only be created in an `abstract` class.<br/>3. An `abstract` class can have both `virtual` and `abstract` methods.<br/>4. Unlinke Inerfaces we can have code in `abstract`class.<br/>5. You cannot create an Instance of an `abstract` class.<br/>6. If a Class extends the `abstract` class then it must implement all the `abstract` methods just like when we Implement Interfaces. |

- **NOTE** : 
	1. You only override `virtual` methods. You don't override `abstract` methods. Why? Because, `abstract` methods are just method definitions they don't have body and you are mandated to Implement them in the Class which is extending the `abstract` class.
	2. Remember you don't `override` the methods that you must `Implement`.
___

#### 22. What are access modifiers?
- There are 4 Access Modifiers in Apex
	1. public
	2. private
	3. protected
	4. global
- An Access Modifier defines from where this piece of code can be accessed.
___
#### 23. Explain the access provided by the different access modifiers.
1. private - By default Variables and Methods are private. Private means the Variable and Method can only be accessed in the Class in which its declared.
2. protected - This means that the method or variable is visible to any inner classes in the defining Apex class, and to the classes that extend the defining Apex class. Should not be used with `static` members.
3. public - This means that the method or variable is accessible by all Apex within a specific package.
4. global - This means the method or variable can be used by any Apex code that has access to the class, not just the Apex code in the same application. This access modifier must be used for any method that must be referenced outside of the application, either in SOAP API or by other Apex code. If you declare a method or variable as global, you must also declare the class that contains it as global. Used to create Web Service.
---
#### 24. Where can you use which access modifier?

| Where can you use | Which Access Modifiers                  |
| ----------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| Top-most Class    | `public` , `global`                     |
| Inner-class       | `private`,`public`,`global`             |
| Variables         | `private`,`protected`,`public`,`global` |
| Methods           | `private`,`protected`,`public`,`global` |
| Constructor       | `public` , `global`                     |

- **NOTE** : 
	1. You should not use `private` on Constructor because the Constructor won't be Visible for creating the Instance.
	2. `protected` on Methods can only be used when the Class is `Virtual`.
	3. The access modifier on a Class Member cannot be more access granting that that of the Class access modifier. Ex: If method is `global` class cannot be `public` it must also be `global`.
___
#### 25. Explain `this` and `super` keyword
1. `this` : If there are 2 variable's with the same name 1 is a Class variable and other is Local variable. Here, if we want to access the Class variable inside the Code block then we use `this` keyword to specify that we want the Class variable and not the Local Variable.
2. `super` : If we have 2 variable's with the same name 1 is a Class variable of ClassA and other is the Class variable of ClassB. If ClassB extends ClassA then we can use the `super` keyword in ClassB to access the ClassA's member Variable.

```apex
// ClassA
public virtual class ClassA {
    protected Integer rollNumber = 20; /*protected can only be accessed from inner class or a class that extends this class */
}

// ClassB
public class ClassB extends ClassA{
    protected Integer rollNumber = 0;
    
    public void display(){
        Integer rollNumber = 1;
        System.debug('ClassB variable ='+this.rollNumber); /* Gives Class Variable of ClassB = 0 */
        System.debug('local variable ='+rollNumber); /* Gives Local Variable of method display() = 1 */
        System.debug('ClassA variable ='+super.rollNumber); /* Gives Class Variable of ClassA = 20 */
    }
}
```

-----
#### 26. Method Overloading vs Overriding

| Method Overloading                                                                                                                         | Method Overriding                                                                                                                                                |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1. When a Single Class have multiple methods with same name.<br/>2. You need to have differenet Signatures to the methods to achieve this. | 1. When the Child Class has methods which are also present in the Parent Class.<br/>2. You need to use `override` keyword to override the Parent Classes method. |

____
#### 27. What is Initialization Code?
Initialization Code is of 2 Types
1. Instance Initialization Code
	- The instance initialization code in a class is executed each time an object is instantiated from that class.
2. `static` Initialization Code
	- A static initialization code block is only initialized one time on the first use of the class.

```apex
// Instance Initialization Code
{

}

// Static Initialization Code
static {

}
```

- Its launched in the order that they are written in the Class.
- There can be multiple Initialization Code blocks in a Class.
- These code blocks run before the constructor.
- Use Instance Initialization Code to Initialize the Instance Variables and Constants and use Static Initialization Code to Initialize the `static` Variables and Constants.
____
