#### Salesforce Object Query Language
- SOQL is a Query Language that lets you fetch data from your Salesforce Org.
- SOQL is also Case Insensitive just like APEX.
- You can use SOQL in
	1. Execute Anonymous Window
	2. Query Editor
	3. Apex Class
#### List of Keywords in SOQL
1. SELECT
2. FROM
3. WHERE
4. AND / OR
5. IN / NOT IN
6. LIKE
7. ORDER BY
8. LIMIT
9. OFFSET
10. GROUP BY
11. FOR UPDATE

**ORDER of Writing Keywords**
```sql
SELECT Id, Name, Rating FROM Account WHERE Rating !=null ORDER BY Name DESC LIMIT 20 OFFSET 10 
```
___
#### 1. SELECT and FROM
- `SELECT` and `FROM` are the only mandatory keywords while writing a SOQL i.e. all SOQL's must have `SELECT` and `FROM` keywords.
- `SELECT` will always be your 1st keyword in a query.
-  `FROM` keyword defines from which object you want to retrieve data.
- After you have finished writing all field Names you should directly write the keyword `FROM` and there should not be any comma `,` present before `FROM` or it will be an "Unknown error parsing query".
---
#### 2. WHERE
- After `WHERE` keyword we write our conditions i.e. what kind of records should be fetched.
- The `WHERE` keyword is written after the sObjectName from which you are querying data.
- NOTE: Conditions in `WHERE` must be written in single Quotes i.e. like a String.
---
#### 3. AND / OR
- `AND / OR` keywords are used while writing multiple conditions for `WHERE`.
```sql
SELECT Id, Name, Email, Status FROM Lead WHERE (Status='Closed-Converted' OR Status='Closed-Not Contacted') AND (Rating='Hot' OR Rating='Warm')
```
---
#### 4. IN
 `IN` keyword replaces `OR` keyword and improves performance. It is used if you need to match a Single Field against multiple possible values.
 ```sql
 SELECT Id, Name, Email, Status FROM Lead WHERE Status IN ('Closed-Converted','Closed-Not Contacted') AND Rating IN ('Hot','Warm')
```
NOTE: Conditions for `IN` keyword must be enclosed in a bracket and seperated with commas and written in single Quotes. But `null` value should be written **without** single quotes.
___
#### 5. NOT IN
- `NOT IN` keyword is exactly opposite of `IN` keyword. Here you will Specifiy which records should be excluded from the result.
```sql
SELECT Id, Gender__c FROM Applicant__c WHERE Gender__c NOT IN ('Male',null)
```
___
#### 6. LIKE
- `LIKE` keyword is used to partially matches the values. It has wildcard functionality which helps in modifying the partial match logic.
-  `LIKE` keyword is the only keyword that performs match in Case Insensitive way. All other keywords matches in Case Sensitive way.
-  `Like` only works on String Fields.

| Wildcard | Function |
| --- | --- |
| `'words%'` | starts with certain words |
| `'%words'` | ends with certain words |
| `'%words%'` | has certain words at any position in the value |
| `'_words%'` | has "words" in the second position (exact position matters) |
| `'words_%'` | has "words" in the second last position and are at least 6 characters in length (more the underscore more the number of characters to match) |
| `'words%words'` | Starts with "words" and ends with "words" |

```sql
SELECT Id, Name FROM Account WHERE Name LIKE 'Demo%' OR Name LIKE '%mo%'
```
NOTE : While checking multiple conditions you need to write seperate LIKE separated by OR
___
#### 7. ORDER BY
- `ORDER BY` keyword is used to sort the SOQL result according to a field. By default the Order of a SOQL can't be predicted hence, we can use ORDER BY.
- After writing `ORDER BY` keyword you will write the Field API Name according to which the Result must be Sorted and after that you will write the Sort Type.
	1. `ASC` - Used to Sort in Ascending order. By default ORDER BY sorts in Ascending order so you can skip ASC keyword
	2. `DSC` - Used to Sort in Descending order.
	3. `NULLS FIRST`- Records having `null` values for the Field are shown at the top of the result.
	4. `NULLS LAST`- Records having `null` values for the Field are shown at the end of the result.

```sql
SELECT Id, Name, Email, CreatedDate FROM Lead ORDER BY CreatedDate DSC
```
___
#### 8. LIMIT
- `LIMIT` keyword limits the number of records fetched by the SOQL.

```sql
SELECT Id, Name, Email, Status FROM LEAD LIMIT 10 /* SOQL will only fetch 10 Records */
```
___
#### 9. OFFSET
- `OFFSET` keyword removes the given number of records from top of the row and shows remaining.

```sql
SELECT Id, Name, Email, Status FROM Lead OFFSET 2
```
___
#### 10. ALL ROWS
Note: You cannot use the following keyword in Query Editor this can only be used in Apex i.e. either in Classes or Anonymous window
`ALL ROWS` is appended at the End of the Query to fetch records from Recycle Bin i.e. deleted records.
___
#### 11. Aggregate Functions in SOQL
1. COUNT
2. COUNT_DISTINCT
3. SUM
4. AVG
5. MIN
6. MAX
NOTE: 
- In Aggregate Functions usually we only fetch 1 field and that also is written inside the `()` of the Aggregate Function.
- At Max you can fetch 2 fields 1st will be passed in the Aggregate function and you must use the second field after `GROUP BY` keyword to group the results according to second field.
- All aggregate functions ignore null values, except for COUNT() and COUNT(Id). COUNT(fieldname) is different from COUNT(). COUNT(fieldname) does ignore null values.

```Sql
// 1. Count()
SELECT Count() FROM Account // Counts Total Records

SELECT COUNT() From Account WHERE Name LIKE 'U%' /* So you cannot fetch 2 fields while using Aggregate Functions but you can specify fields in WHERE clause */

SELECT Count(Rating) FROM Account //Count only Records that dont have a blank Rating

// 2. COUNT_DISTINCT()
SELECT COUNT_DISTINCT(Rating) FROM Account //Only counts records with unique values these values are repeated in all remaining records

// 3. SUM()
SELECT SUM(Amount), Account.Name FROM Opportunity GROUP BY Account.Name HAVING SUM(Amount) > 50000 LIMIT 5

// 4. AVG()
SELECT AVG(Amount), Account.Name FROM Opportunity GROUP BY Account.Name

// 5. MIN()
SELECT MIN(Amount) FROM Opportunity

// 6. MAX()
SELECT MAX(Amount) FROM Opportunity
```
___
#### 12. GROUP BY
- You can only use GROUP BY when you are using Aggregate Functions. And the SOQL can only be stored in `AggregateResult[]` data type.
- GROUP BY in SOQL is used to summarize data according to a particular field.
- You can use GROUP BY and Aggregate functions together this the only time when you can have 2 fields while using Aggregate functions because they only allow 1 field and that also as an Argument. Ex:  `SELECT LeadSource, COUNT(Name) FROM Lead GROUP BY LeadSource`.
- **NOTE** : While using GROUP BY you cannot use COUNT() you must use COUNT(field)
```apex
public class Demo {
    public static void display(){
        /*NOTE: the data type for a SOQL that returns Aggregate values is AggregateResult[] */
        AggregateResult[] groupedResults = [SELECT SUM(Amount), Account.Name FROM Opportunity GROUP BY Account.Name];
        for(AggregateResult result : groupedResults){
            System.debug('Account Name ='+result.get('Name')+' Sum = '+result.get('expr0'));
            /* Here name is the Field Api by which you GROUP BY
            And expr0 represents the Aggregate Function
            Always remeber to pass them as strings to .get()	*/
        }
    }
}
```
___
#### 13. FOR UPDATE
- If we use FOR UPDATE in the SOQL then the Records that are fetched are Locked i.e. no one can modify them till the Transaction is completed.
```sql
SELECT Id FROM Account LIMIT 2 FOR UPDATE
```
- **NOTE** :
	1. You cannot use ORDER BY and OFFSET if you want to use FOR UPDATE.
	2. Cannot be used in Query Editor
___
