#### 1. What's Debugging?
1. Debugging is process of solving Bugs i.e. Errors in the Apex Code.
2. A Bug can be
	1. Syntactic Error : Ex: You forgot to write `finish()` method in the Batch Apex. You didn't wrote a semicolon at the end of a Statement.
	2. Logical Error : When code does not give the result that you want from it. Ex: You want addition of two numbers but while writing code instead of using `+` you accidentally used `-`.
	3. Performance Issues : The processing is taking longer than expected and hence, it hits the Governor Limits. Either you are using wrong type of Apex i.e. Sync while you should be using Async OR you didn't use best practices and hence, the Governor Limits are reaching Quickly. Ex: You are using `dml` statements inside the `for` loop which runs over 150 which is the Limit for a `dml` statement for both Sync and Async.
____
#### 2. What is a Debug Log?
1. To identify what Bugs(Errors) are in our code we need the Debug Logs.
2. Debug Logs are files in which the entire data about what happened during a Process is written.
3. Before using Debug Logs we have setup the Debug Logs.
4. A Debug Log can be set on :
	1. A User
	2. An Apex Class
	3. An Apex Trigger
	4. An Automated Process
	5. Platform Integration
5. **Process** : Go to Setup &rarr; Debug Logs &rarr; Under User Trace Flags click New/Edit &rarr; Select Traced Entity Type and Traced Entity Name &rarr; Select Start Date, End Date and Debug Level.
6. A Debug Log can Contain :
	1. Database changes
	2. HTTP callouts
	3. Apex errors
	4. Resources used by Apex
	5. Automated workflow processes, such as:
		1. Workflow rules
		2. Assignment rules
		3. Approval processes
		4. Validation rules
**NOTE** : 
1. Each debug log must be 20 MB or smaller. Debug logs that are larger than 20 MB are reduced in size by removing older log lines automatically.
2. System debug logs are retained for 24 hours. Monitoring debug logs are retained for seven days. After that they are automatically deleted.
3. If you generate more than 1,000 MB of debug logs in a 15-minute window, your trace flags are disabled. We send an email to the users who last modified the trace flags, informing them that they can re-enable the trace flag in 15 minutes.
_____
