#### 1. What is Business Automation?
- Automation is a process that reduces or eliminates manual steps.
- Automation reduces the work that humans have to do on repetitive tasks, which usually means a better experience for your customers and lower stress for your teams.
___
#### 2. What are the Automation Tools available in Salesforce?
From Summer 23 release we only have 3 automation tools
1. Approval Process
2. Flow Builder
3. Apex
Previously, we also had 2 automation tools
1. Workflow Rules
2. Process Builder
___
#### 3. What are Automated Actions?
- An Automated Action is a Reusable component that we add to the different Automation Tools.
- There are 5 types of Automated Actions
	1. Tasks
	2. Email Alerts
	3. Field Updates
	4. Outbound Messages
- To create an Automated Action go to Setup &rarr; Workflow Actions &rarr; Select the Type of Automated Action.
- **NOTE** : A complete explanation of the Different Automated Actions is given in [Workflow Rules](../02._Automation/02._Workflow_Rules)
___
#### 3. Explain Approval Processes.
- In some Businesses there might be a requirement that, a Record should be approved by Someone in the Organization before the record moves to a final spot.
- Approval Process is an Automation Tool that lets you specify a sequence of steps that are required to approve a record.
- An approval process automates how records are approved in Salesforce.
- One user Submits a Record for Approval and the Designated Approver or multiple Approver's approves the Record.
___
#### 4. Explain Escalation Rules.
___
