#### 1. What is Apex?
- Apex is a strongly typed, object-oriented programming language.
- It is a Server Side Language which runs on Force.com platform.
___
#### 2. Difference between Strongly typed and Weakly typed Language.

| Strongly Typed     | Weakly Typed     |
|:-----|:-----|
|A Strongly typed language is a language where we need to write the Data Type while declaring the Variable       |A Weakly typed language is a language where we don't need to write the Data Type for a Variable       |
|Does not support Implicit Conversion      |Supports Implicit Conversion      |
____
____
#### 3. What is a Data Type? What are the Data Types supported in Apex?
- A data type tells you which type of values a variable can hold, the operations that can be performed on the values, and the way the values are stored in memory.
- Apex has 2 Types of Data Types : Primitive and Non-Primitive.
1. Primitive Data Types:
	1. Boolean
	2. Integer
	3. Long
	4. Decimal
	5. Double
	6. Id
	7. String
	8. Date
	9. Time
	10. Date Time
	11. Blob
2. Non-Primitive Data Types:
	1. Collections
	2. Classes
	3. Objects
	4. Interfaces
	5. Enums
____
#### 4. In how many ways can you Invoke Apex?
We invoke Apex in 2 Ways:
1. Synchronous
	1. Apex Class
	2. Trigger
2. Asynchronous
	1. Future Method
	2. Queueable Apex
	3. Batch Apex
	4. Scheduled Apex
____
#### 5. Synchronous vs Asynchronous Apex invocation?
- In synchronous invocation, the Apex code is executed in real-time and the execution waits for the code to complete before proceeding to the next step.
- In asynchronous invocation, the Apex code is executed in the background or on a separate thread, allowing the main transaction to continue without waiting for the code to complete.
____
#### 6. When should you prefer Synchronous or Asynchronous Apex invocation?
It depends on 2 Factors
1. Response Time
2. Governor Limits
So you should use
1. Synchronous Apex if:
	1. You want the Code to return the Results Quickly.
	2. The amount of data on which you want to work fits within the Limits of Synchronous Apex Governor Limits.
2. Asynchronous Apex if:
	1. You don't care when the code execution finishes OR you want the code to execute automatically on a scheduled time.
	2. You want to work on a large data set hence, the Synchronous Apex Governor Limits can't fulfill your requirement and you must use Asynchronous Apex to get higher limits granted by the Asynchronous Apex Governor Limits.
____
