## Salesforce Object Query Language
- SOQL is used to retrive data from the Salesforce Database.
- You can use SOQL in
	- Anynomous Apex
	- Query Editor
	- Apex Class methods
### List of Keywords in SOQL
1. SELECT
2. FROM
3. WHERE
4. AND / OR
5. IN / NOT IN
6. LIKE
7. ORDER BY
8. LIMIT
9. OFFSET
___
### 1. SELECT and FROM
- `SELECT` and `FROM` are the only mandatory keywords while writting a soql i.e. all soql's must have `SELECT` and `FROM` keywords.
- `SELECT` will always be your 1st keyword in a query.
-  `FROM` keyword defines from which object you want to retrive data.
- After you have finished writting all field Names you should directly write the keyword `FROM` and there should not be any comma `,` present before `FROM` or it will be an "Unknown error parsing query".
- SOQL is also Case Insensitive just like APEX.
---
### 2. WHERE
- After `WHERE` keyword we write our conditions i.e. what kind of records should be fetched.
- The `WHERE` keyword is written after the sObjectName from which you are querying data.
- NOTE: Conditions in `WHERE` must be written in single Quotes i.e. like a String.
---
### 3. AND / OR
- `AND / OR` keywords are used while writing multiple conditions for `WHERE`.
```sql
SELECT Id, Name, Email, Status FROM Lead WHERE (Status='Closed-Converted' OR Status='Closed-Not Contacted') AND (Rating='Hot' OR Rating='Warm')
```
---
### 4. IN
 `IN` keyword replaces `OR` keyword and improves performance. It is used if you need to match a Single Field against multiple possible values.
 ```sql
 SELECT Id, Name, Email, Status FROM Lead WHERE Status IN ('Closed-Converted','Closed-Not Contacted') AND Rating IN ('Hot','Warm')
```
NOTE: Conditions for `IN` keyword must be enclosed in a bracket and seperated with commas and written in single Quotes. But `null` value should be written **without** single quotes.
___
### 5. NOT IN
- `NOT IN` keyword is exactly opposite of `IN` keyword. Here you will Specifiy which records should be excluded from the result.
```sql
SELECT Id, Gender__c FROM Applicant__c WHERE Gender__c NOT IN ('Male',null)
```
___
### 6. LIKE
- `LIKE` keyword is used to partially matche the values. It has wildcard functionality which helps in modifying the partial match logic.
-  `LIKE` keyword is the only keyword that performs match in Case Insensitive way. All other keywords matches in Case Sensitive way.
-  `Like` only works on String Fields.
- 
| Wildcard | Function |
| --- | --- |
| `'words%'` | starts with certain words |
| `'%words'` | ends with certain words |
| `'%words%'` | has certain words at any position in the value |
| `'_words%'` | has "words" in the second position (exact position matters) |
| `'words_%'` | has "words" in the second last position and are at least 6 characters in length (more the underscore more the number of characters to match) |
| `'words%words'` | Starts with "words" and ends with "words" |
```sql
SELECT Id, Name FROM Account WHERE Name LIKE 'Demo%' OR Name LIKE '%mo%'
```
NOTE : While checkin multiple conditions you need to write seperate LIKE seperated by OR
___
### 7. ORDER BY
- `ORDER BY` keyword is used to sort the soql result according to a field.
- After writing `ORDER BY` keyword you will write the Field API Name according to which the Result must be Sorted and after that you will write the Sort Type.
	1. `ASC` - Used to Sort in Ascending order. By default SOQL sorts in Ascending order so you can skip ASC keyword
	2. `DSC` - Used to Sort in Descending order.
	3. `NULLS FIRST`- Records having `null` values for the Field are shown at the top of the result.
	4. `NULLS LAST`- Records having `null` values for the Field are shown at the end of the result.
```sql
SELECT Id, Name, Email, CreatedDate FROM Lead ORDER BY CreatedDate DSC
```
___
### 8. LIMIT
- `LIMIT` keyword limits the number of records fetched by the soql.
```sql
SELECT Id, Name, Email, Status FROM LEAD LIMIT 10
```
___
### 9. OFFSET
- `OFFSET` keyword removes the given number of records from top of the row and shows remaining.
```sql
SELECT Id, Name, Email, Status FROM Lead OFFSET 2
```
___
### 10. ALL ROWS
Note: You cannot use the following keyword in Query Editor this can only be used in Apex i.e. either in Classes or Anonymous window
`ALL ROWS` is appended at the End of the Query to fetch records from Recycle Bin i.e. deleted records.
___
## Aggregate Functions in SOQL
1. COUNT
2. COUNT_DISTINCT
3. SUM
4. AVG
5. MIN
6. MAX
NOTE: 
- In Aggregate Functions usually we only fetch 1 field and that also is written inside the `()` of the Aggregate Function.
- At Max you can fetch 2 fields 1st will be passed in the Aggregate function and you must use the second field after `GROUP BY` keyword to group the results according to second field.
- If you want to have conditions for the `Aggregate Function ex: SUM()` we don't use `WHERE` keyword instead we use `HAVING` keyword.
- All aggregate functions ignore null values, except for COUNT() and COUNT(Id).
- You can use `LIMIT` clause only if you have used `GROUP BY`
```Sql
// 1. Count()
SELECT Count() FROM Account // Counts Total Records

SELECT COUNT() From Account WHERE Name LIKE 'U%'

SELECT Count(Rating) FROM Account //Count only Records that dont have a blank Rating

// 2. COUNT_DISTINCT()
SELECT COUNT_DISTINCT(Rating) FROM Account //Only counts records with unique values these values are repeated in all remaining records

// 3. SUM()
SELECT SUM(Amount), Account.Name FROM Opportunity GROUP BY Account.Name HAVING SUM(Amount) > 50000 LIMIT 5

// 4. AVG()
SELECT AVG(Amount), Account.Name FROM Opportunity GROUP BY Account.Name

// 5. MIN()
SELECT MIN(Amount) FROM Opportunity

// 6. MAX()
SELECT MAX(Amount) FROM Opportunity
```
___
# Relationship Queries
- If you want to fetch records from multiple sObjects using 1 soql then they must have some relationship.
### 1. Parent to Child soql
- We write Inner Query for the Child sObject which is related to Parent sObject.
- Till now we wrote the sObject name for the `FROM` keyword but while writting an Inner-Query we don't use the sObject Name instead we use the **Child Relationship Name**.
- The Relationship name is different for Parent to Child vs Child to Parent.
**Limitations of Parent to Child soql:**
- You can have 20 nested subqueries. ex: Account is Parent of Opportunity and Contact so you can have 1 inner querie for each. i.e. you can fetch 20 Child objects for 1 Parent Object in 1 query.
- Aggregate functions, such as SUM(), COUNT(), and MAX(), cannot be used in Parent-to-Child SOQL queries.
- **But, You cannot have a inner query inside a inner query** i.e. Parent to child supports only 1 level deep query.

###### How to get the Child Relationship Name?
- To get the relationship name : Object Manager → Child sObject → Fields and Relationships → Find a Field under DataType which is MDR or Lookup ex: Lookup(Account) Click on that field → Copy Child Relationship Name.
- Process is same for both Standard and Custom fields only difference is that if the Child Field is Custom then you need to append `__r` in the Child Relationship Name.
```sql
SELECT Id, Name, (SELECT Name, Amount, StageName FROM Opportunities) FROM Account

SELECT Id, First_Name__c, Gender__c, (SELECT Id, City__c FROM addresses__r
) FROM Applicant__c
```
NOTE: 
- You get Relationship Name from Child Object becuase you always create a Relationship field on a Child Object.
- Mostly Relationship Names are just Plural Forms of the API Names (There might be exceptions so always copy paste).
  
### 2. Child to Parent soql
**Limitations of Child to Parent soql** :
- Child to Parent support upto 5 level deep query. (A Child must be having a Parent that Parent might be a Child of some Other Parent and so on). For example, Contact.Account.Owner.FirstName (three levels).
-  No more than 55 child-to-parent relationships can be specified in a query. A custom object allows up to 40 relationships, so you can reference all the child-to-parent relationships for a custom object in one query.
- You don't need Child Relationship Name in the Case of Child to Parent Relationship Queries.
```sql
SELECT Id, Email, Phone, AccountId, Account.Name, Account.SLA__c FROM Contact
```
NOTE : You can have both Parent to Child and Child to Parent in 1 single soql
```sql
SELECT Account.Name, Account.Rating,(SELECT CaseNumber, Subject FROM 
Cases), Name, Department, Title FROM Contact
```
___

